---
layout: notes
title: CFAA
scribe: Anushree Srinivasan
---

#Presentation: Attack on Bangladesh Bank SWIFT

##Facts related to case:
	1. Case from February 2016
	2. 81M$ stolen.
	3. The transaction wa stopped in time else 951M$ more would have been stolen.
	4. Banks of Bangladesh blamed although SWIFT acknowledgement method is still questionable.
	5. Attack was done byy intercepting message at local bank.
	6. The money was routed to bank in Phillipines.
	7. North Korea and Russia both alleged by FBI of carrying out the attack.
	8. Case still under trial hence many facts and methodologies used for the transfer are not public.


#Lecture: Cyber Law Guest Lecture - CFAA

##Roots of CFAA
	The movie War games was an important motivator for the Congress to pass the Cyber Fraud and Abuse Act(CFAA) in 1986.

##The CFAA
	(a) Whoever—
		(1) having knowingly accessed a computer without authorization or exceeding authorized access, and by means of such 
			conduct having obtained information that has been determined by the United States Government pursuant to an Executive 
			order or statute to require protection against unauthorized disclosure for reasons of national defense or foreign 
			relations, or any restricted data, as defined in paragraph y. of section 11 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, with 
			reason to believe that such information so obtained could be used to the injury of the United States, or to the 
			advantage of any foreign nation willfully communicates, delivers, transmits, or causes to be communicated, delivered, 
			or transmitted, or attempts to communicate, deliver, transmit or cause to be communicated, delivered, or transmitted 
			the same to any person not entitled to receive it, or willfully retains the same and fails to deliver it to the officer 
			or employee of the United States entitled to receive it;
		(2) intentionally accesses a computer without authorization or exceeds authorized access, and thereby obtains—
			(A) information contained in a financial record of a financial institution, or of a card issuer as defined in section 
				1602 (n) [1] of title 15, or contained in a file of a consumer reporting agency on a consumer, as such terms are 
				defined in the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.);
			(B) information from any department or agency of the United States; or
			(C) information from any protected computer;
		(3) intentionally, without authorization to access any nonpublic computer of a department or agency of the United States, 
			accesses such a computer of that department or agency that is exclusively for the use of the Government of the United 
			States or, in the case of a computer not exclusively for such use, is used by or for the Government of the United States 
			and such conduct affects that use by or for the Government of the United States;
		(4) knowingly and with intent to defraud, accesses a protected computer without authorization, or exceeds authorized access, 
			and by means of such conduct furthers the intended fraud and obtains anything of value, unless the object of the fraud 
			and the thing obtained consists only of the use of the computer and the value of such use is not more than $5,000 in any 
			1-year period;
		(5)
			(A) knowingly causes the transmission of a program, information, code, or command, and as a result of such conduct, 
				intentionally causes damage without authorization, to a protected computer;
			(B) intentionally accesses a protected computer without authorization, and as a result of such conduct, recklessly causes damage; or
			(C) intentionally accesses a protected computer without authorization, and as a result of such conduct, causes damage and loss.
		(6) knowingly and with intent to defraud traffics (as defined in section 1029) in any password or similar information through 
			which a computer may be accessed without authorization, if—
			(A) such trafficking affects interstate or foreign commerce; or
			(B) such computer is used by or for the Government of the United States;
		(7) with intent to extort from any person any money or other thing of value, transmits in interstate or foreign commerce any communication containing any—
			(A) threat to cause damage to a protected computer;
			(B) threat to obtain information from a protected computer without authorization or in excess of authorization or to 
				impair the confidentiality of information obtained from a protected computer without authorization or by exceeding authorized access; or
			(C) demand or request for money or other thing of value in relation to damage to a protected computer, where such damage was caused to facilitate the extortion

##For Cyber Security Research:
	The parts 2, 4 and 5 are specially important to researchers. In these the words that pop out are:
	1. intentionally
	2. knowingly
	3. recklessly
	4. causing
	5. without authorization
	6. protected computer

##Definition of terms pertaining to laws:
	1. intentionally: the outcome is as was expected.
	2. knowingly: with knowledge that the outcome was possible.
	3. recklessly: with regard for the consequnces.
	4. negligently: ignoring the outcomes possible.
	5. strict liability: liable even if intents were not the outcome.
	6. computer: electronic, magnetic, or electro-chemical high-speed data processing device.
	7. protected computer: exclusively for the use of a financial institution or the U.S. government, or which is used affecting interstate or 
		foreign commerce/communication.
	8. without authorization: acessing content that is not allowed.
	9. exceeding authorization: acessing content that is more than what is allowed for your particular level.
