---
layout: notes
title: "Lecture 7: Web Security"
scribe: Tara Taybah
---

## Web Security

HTTPS is a protocol running on top of HTTP that encrypts traffic.

Key Exchange protocol:

1. Key exchange
2. encrypt
3. HTTP - base layer


HTTPS messages are sent over TLS, but HTTP goes over TCP not TLS .. no encryption, sent over the clear.

---

#### Threat Models:

###### Man in the Middle:

Alice ============Eve===========Bob


Eve can see, interfere, modify, full control of messages sent between Alice and Bob.

###### Off-Path Attacker:

Attacker is not man in the middle, is remote server connected to the internet. Server cannot see messages or eves, only send them.
*If system is susceptible to this then system is very vulnerable*

###### On-Path Attacker
The attacker can eavesdrop but not modify or drop Alice to Bob traffic. But because it's connected to the internet, it can also send messages.


----

HTTPS Request: What happens when you visit a web page -- information is leaked, can be used to fingerprint users. You could find out type of browser, OS, where user came from (*referer*).


**Security Issue: Pixel Tracking:** embed small images in page that no human can see, when page loaded browser has to also fetch image without user permissions.


Generally, servers don't keep state. A server doesn't know the user from one request to another. But to make things easier, cookies _do_ keep state on the user's machine. 
Because cookies contain sensitive information about the user _they should not be sent over HTTP_.

