---
layout: notes
title: DNS Spoofing 
scribe: Your Name
---


##How	to	spoof	DNS?
When	you	send	the	DNS address	you	send	it	to	the	query	id,	16-bit number.	When	
response	comes	back	you	know	which	request	to	match	it	with.	
If	you	are	the	bad	guy,	and	someone	makes	a	response	you	want to	come	back	with	an	
answer	faster	than	their	address	to	give	them	the	wrong	address.	
If	this	response	comes	back	faster	and	query	id	matches	the	victim	will	take	the	
response.
*can	poison their	cache	for	a	long	time
###How	do	you	figure	out	the	query	id? *assuming	fixed	port	and	sequential	query	id
Off path	attack:		Create	a	webpage	that	contains	an	image	that	goes	to	the	
(induce	the	request) website	you	want	to	get	the	query	id for.	If	you	own	the	
domain	server, you	will	know	the	query	id	that	is	presented	in	your	own	
webpage.	The	query	id	increment	by	one	would	be	the	victims	query	id.	
Benefits to	adding nonexistent	weird	names to	the	webpage:
* Victim	will	send	more	DNS	request.
* Will	be	longer	attack	window.	
* It	also	returns	an	SOA	record	which	is	a	header	record	for	the	DNS	
zone.
* Request	guaranteed because	the	victim	will	not	have	these	addresses	
in	the	cache.
Is	there	any	way	to	check	if	you	succeeded in	this	attack?
You	will	find	out	immediately because	they	will	go	to	your	request.


The	responses	will	redirect	to	another	name	server	operated	by	the	attacker.
Will	have	the	name	server	record
Will	have	the	A	record	with	the	attackers	IP	address (Glue	Record)
Fake	Glue	Record,	when	victim	request	the	page,	will	be	flooded	with	packets.
##Kavinisky	Attack:
Instead	of	positioning the	single	server	IP address	will	poison the	name	server,	so	any	
page	related	to	the	name	server	will	be	poisoned.
The	way	we	do	that	is	have	the	victim	ask	for	a	ton	on	non	existent IPs with	the	same	
domain.	 *payoff	is	high
Only	need	to	win	one	race	for	the	request	out	of	multiple	requests	from	the	
victim
##How	to	prevent the	attack?
Query	ID	randomization:
216 Security	(not	secure).
*As	long	as	you	an	keep	the	victim	query	busy	for	ten	seconds	you	can				
win.	
*Kavinisky	Attack	still	doable	
Random	Port:
Another	11-bit	number	so	227 security	

DNS	maps	human	readable	name	to	IP	addresses.
Certificates	maps	domain	to	public	key
DNS	Sec:
Adds	a	new	record	type	called	“RRSIG” (resource	record	signature).	
If	I	were	to	request	www.google.com I	get	several	A	records.	This	block	of	records	will	
be	accompanied by	RRSIG	that	will	sign	all	these	records.
** If	the	A	records return	in	the	same	DNS	response will	be	signed	together.	

###What	does	that	do	to	your DDOS	attack?
Stronger	at	DDOS	attack	because	signatures	are	relatively long.	
*Zone	will	include	a	public	key	record.
New	record	type:	DNSKey
This	contains	the	public	key
DS(Delegation	Signer)	goes	along	with	NS:
When	you	get	a	NS	record	when	you	go	for	example	ww.bu.edu	and	you	
get	a	NS	record	ns1.bu.edu	you	also	get	a	DS	record	that	says	here	is	the	
hash	for	their	PK
